# Sanctioned by Data

Santioned by Data is a sanction screening system that revolutionizes Sanction Screening Systems throughout the usage of AI; to make them more accurate and robust.
This reduces the amount of false positives generated by the old rule-based systems and hence reduces costs and efforts. 

## Table of Contents

- [Project Description](#project-description)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Project Description

The system consists of two Machine Learning (ML) models, RNN(LSTM) and a Transformer, which are used to predict if a client's input name is similar to a blacklisted persons name. 
This system removes any loop holes that a person might try to use in order to get around the system in order to commit illegal actions, like money laundry or fraud.
Some of this systems most notable features are, but not exclusive to:

-Name Generator Tool: allows a user to enter a name of a person they want to analyse and generate variations of that name.
-Name Matching Tool: allows the user to input a suspicious persons name, the name is then scanned against a blacklist, where the system uses the machine learning model to predict a similar name to it from the blacklist -if exists-. 
-Regional Analysis Tool: a tool that provides an interactive and clear view of the world map. The world map will have a user input of a persons name and country, the system then runs the name against the blacklist using the name matching tool, once matched it marks the matched name area on the map, allowing the user to analyse if they are the same person and if they are regionally close to each other.
-Adverse Media Tool: the user can input a name and the system will use algorithms to produce a short summary about that person from the internet.

## Installation

In order to install the system locally, please follow the following steps: 
step 1: Download all the files in the repository.
step 2: create a new python environment in your local IDE.
step 3: install the requirements.txt file. to do that go to the terminal, run the following command in your newly created python environment: 
pip install -r requirements.txt
step 4: once the environment is fully set up, run the Grad UI.py folder and you are done.

## Usage

1. Once you have successfully installed the code, open the application and you will be met with a simple login page, from there if you already have an account please enter your credentials, if you do not have an account click on the signup button found under the login button.

2. After logging in, you will be met with a welcome screen, on the left hand side there will be a menu where you can choose which tool you want to use. To start on the welcome page (home page), you can "enter a list of names" through a .csv file or you can "enter a name". The "enter a name" button will direct you to a new page which is called "Name Matching", which can be used to enter the first and last name of a person, then match that name with to see if there are any similar names in the blacklist. After you're done, you have the option to go back which will redirect you to the "Name Matching" tool main page.

3. The next tool available to use is the Regional Analysis Tool. When selected you will be able to enter a first and a last name and then choose the country of the name of the person you entered and click on "analyse". You will be met with an interactive map of the world with a couple of markers on it. The markers will indicate the region of the person whose name you have input into the system, and the second marker will be a matched blacklisted person and the region they are from. Once done you have the option to go back to input a new name in the regional analysis tool.

4. The third tool, Name Generator, will allow the user to input a name, the system will then generate at random numerous amounts of variations of that name. This can help an investigator to analyse different ways that the person may write their name in.

5. The final tool is the Adverse Media Tool. This tool takes a name as an input, the system then will generate a short summary about the name of the person that was input, allowing for a comparison/analysis of different people. This helps in identifying if a certain individual is the same individual in the blacklist which makes an investigators analysis more accurate and efficient.

6. Lastly, you have the option to go to into the settings page which can be used to view an accounts information like the email address and to change or reset the password if forgotten. You also have the option to logout of the account currently logged in, which will take you back to the login page for another user to use.

## Contributing

This was a team work for a Data Science and Artificial Intelligence Graduation Project for Princess Sumaya University for Technology, by the students Namir Alkhalidi and Jana El-Shaer.

## License

This project is licensed under the [Appache 2.0 License](LICENSE). 
